Çeşme
Ilıca Beach, one of the most beautiful beaches in Çeşme
Çeşme is probably the first place that comes to mind when discussing İzmir holiday destinations. Featuring splendid beaches, historical monuments, museums, and dining, Çeşme is considered an ideal location for a summer holiday in Türkiye.

The Çeşme beaches are so beautiful that thousands of local and foreign tourists visit annually, mainly between May and September. Ilıca Beach, Altınkum Beach, Ayayorgi Bay, Kocakarı Beach, Pırlanta Beach, Sakızlı Bay, Boyalık Bay and many more secluded paradises and beaches around can be found in Çeşme. Çeşme beaches will no doubt exceed expectations.

It is also a pleasure to visit historical sites in Çeşme, with settlements dating from the 7th century BCE. The Çeşme Castle, built by Beyazıt and used as a museum today, and the Caravanserai, built by Suleiman the Magnificent, are among Çeşme’s notable sights.

Seferihisar 
Sığacık, among the most beautiful towns of Seferihisar, was the first in Turkey to be granted the Cittaslow title.
Sığacık, among the most beautiful towns of Seferihisar, was the first in Türkiye to be granted the Cittaslow title.
Seferihisar offers a more tranquil summer holiday in İzmir – visitors can experience the flow of time in a picturesque setting. Seferihisar and Sığacık are among the most unique holiday destinations in İzmir and Türkiye.

Seferihisar was Türkiye’s first town to receive the Cittaslow title. Cittaslow, which means “Slow City”, is a union of municipalities established in Italy in 1999. The Cittaslow network, which includes slow cities from all over the world, is an organization aimed at protecting the local cuisine, local architecture, traditions, and crafts of the regions that seek to prevent the uniformity that arises with globalization.

In Seferihisar, the ancient city of Teos is a notable site. One of the most important ancient cities in Türkiye, Teos is prominent in international literature with its Temple of Dionysus, as well as its agora, port, theater, cistern and ancient temple.

Among Seferihisar’s charms are the quaint houses with bay windows (Cumbalı) of Sığacık. This entrancing seaside town, which is the setting for many TV series and films, features captivating streets, along with Sığacık Castle and the Sığacık Organic Market, where visitors can purchase and sample region-specific products.

Seferihisar is home to the beautiful Akkum and Akarca beaches. Both are fairly tranquil; the waters of Akarca Beach are cooler.

Widen your world.

1 Passenger
Search
Foça 
The Siren Rocks, in Foça, are mentioned in Homer’s Odessey
The Siren Rocks, in Foça, are mentioned in Homer’s Odessey
Foça is a quiet İzmir holiday resort featuring historical streets and charming beaches. Visitors can rent a car to reach Foça, which is divided into two sections: Eski (Old) Foça and Yeni (New) Foça. Stop along the way and enjoy a swim in the sparkling bays between Eski Foça and Yeni Foça.

Foça is an old Ionian city with a history dating back approximately 2,700 years. The traces of this history are evident: the Persian Tomb Monument, and the Ottoman and Greek cemeteries testify to this history, as does the Fatih Mosque, converted into a mosque during the reign of Mehmet the Conqueror.

For romantic sunset views, Phrygian Hill is ideal. Other notable sites include the Siren Rocks, mentioned in Homer’s Odessey, the medieval-era Foça Aqueduct and several windmills.

To experience the renowned magic of the Aegean Sea and the beaches of İzmir, head to Hanedan Beach, the Sazlıca beaches, Çanak Bay and Voodoo Beach.

Urla 
A stunning sunset view from Urla
A stunning sunset view from Urla
The coastal town of Urla is another charming holiday resort in İzmir and one particularly attractive to city dwellers seeking to escape urban stress. Urla is renowned for its congenial residents and its restaurants, its virgin bays and oxygen-rich air – and its general atmosphere of peace and tranquility.

In addition to magnificent bays and beaches, Urla is home to many other beauties. Karantina Island, the Art Street for souvenirs, Klazomenai Ancient City, the Köstem Olive Oil Museum, Historical Barbaros Village and Bademler Village, the Malgaca Market and dozens of other experiences await visitors in Urla.

Urla is a standout in the pantheon of İzmir beaches, featuring quiet coves and beaches – mainly frequented only by local people – in the south. These include Altınköy Beach, Demircili Beach, Melengeç Beach, Deniz Yıldızı Beach and Bodrum Bay. In the northern area are Çeşmealtı Beach, Yassıca Island, Sand Sea Beach, Özbek Akkum Beach and Gülbahçe Beach.

Alaçatı 
Alaçatı, Turkey's windsurfing center
Alaçatı, Türkiye’s windsurfing center
Among the most well-known İzmir holiday destinations, Alaçatı is connected to Çeşme but is highly popular on its own as a summer holiday center.

In fact, Alaçatı is one of the most popular holiday resorts not only in İzmir, but also in Türkiye. It is an enchanting town offering dynamic nightlife and lovely beaches, as well as quaint historical streets, and stone houses draped with bougainvillea and geraniums. Plans are not required in Alaçatı – simply walking around the town is a delightful experience.

It would not be exaggerating to note that İzmir’s most beautiful beaches are in Alaçatı – namely, Ilıca Beach, Delikli Bay, Çark Beach, Cleopatra Bay and Piyade Bay Beach. Alaçatı is also the capital of windsurfing in Türkiye. In fact, a leg of the Windsurfing World Championships was held in Alaçatı for a period.

Dikili 
The Ancient City of Pergamon, near Dikili.
The Ancient City of Pergamon, near Dikili.
Set along the Aegean Sea, just across from Lesbos Island, Dikili is one of the most popular holiday destinations in İzmir, attracting visitors seeking a quiet summer vacation.

The history of Dikili dates from antiquity: The Atarneus Ancient City, Pitane Ancient City and Çandarlı Castle are must-sees for history buffs. The world-famous Pergamon Ancient City is also close to Dikili. The Atatürk Botanical Garden and Karagöl Nature Park, set on an area of 30 hectares, are another locale to visit, especially for nature lovers. Nebiler Village and Aşıklar Waterfall offer excellent hiking opportunities.

Kayra Beach, Dikili Public Beach, Hayıtlı Bay, Küçük Zindancık Bay, Çandarlı Beach and Pissa Beach are the beaches that come to mind in Dikili. For more information about camping in İzmir, please see The 7 best places to camp in İzmir.

Karaburun 
Karaburun, with its splendid nature
Karaburun, with its splendid nature
Karaburun offers calm and tranquility amid pristine nature.

Located north of Urla, Karaburun is the smallest district of İzmir. With its charming villages, pristine nature and little-known beaches and coves, Karaburun is a hidden paradise among İzmir’s holiday destinations. The Sarpıncık Lighthouse, Sazak Village, and Ayşe Kadın Mosque are among the notable sites, as are the villages and bays of the Karaburun peninsula.

Karaburun, in fact, is notable for its coves and beaches, particularly Mimoza Bay, Ayı Balığı Bay, İncirliköy Beach, Hamzabükü, Badem Bükü and Boyabağı Bay. Some of these bays and beaches feature campsites. As well, Karaburun is emerging as a favorite destination for scuba diving and snorkeling.

We must conclude by reminding all visitors to sample Balıklıova’s famous meltaway cookies when passing through!